---
title: "LexM [engl.]"
slug: anwendung-lexm-en
date: 2009-12-17

draft: false

blog/authors: ["Wiebke Oeltjen"]
blog/periods: 2009-12
blog/categories:
 - "Anwendungen"
 - "english"

#blog/tags:
 
---
**Biographical Dictionary of Persecuted Musicians 1933-1945**
{{< mcr-figure class="text-center" src="/images/blog/applications/lexm_screenshot.jpg" alt="Screenshot LexM"
  label="screenshot" caption="LexM" />}}

edited since 2005 at the University of Hamburg   
by: Claudia Maurer Zenck and Peter Petersen  
editorial assistant: Sophie Fetthauer

<table class="table" style="width:auto">
 <tr>
 	<th>home page:</th>
 	<td><a href="http://www.lexm.uni-hamburg.de/" alt="Link zum Lexikon LexM" title="link to the lexicon LexM">http://www.lexm.uni-hamburg.de</a></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
   <th>contact:</th>
   <td><a href="mailto:sophie.fetthauer@uni-hamburg.de" title="e-mail address">sophie.fetthauer@uni-hamburg.de</a></td>
 </tr>
</table>

The Biographical Dictionary of Persecuted Musicians 1933-1945 focusses on musicians who were persecuted in Germany 
between 1933 and 1945 for racial, political, cultural, religious, ideological or other reasons. Theses lives, that 
were deeply affected by discrimination, deprivation, imprisonment in ghettos and concentration camps, concealment or 
exile will form the centre of the project. It will include professional musicians of all ages who were persecuted by 
the NS-state and who lived, worked or were known in Germany or Austria. Every field of musical activity will be included: 
composition, interpretation, education, scholarship and music management. Our aim is to provide a completely new 
foundation to all research concerned with the destructive effects of musicians' persecution and expulsion as well as 
the constructive effect of migration for the global music culture. This should give a better understanding of 20th 
century's music history and of musical life today and, in addition, should have the benefit to rediscover musicians who 
have been completely forgotten. Thus, the project has two aims: On the one hand we want to inform about every single 
fate, on the other hand we want to provide an instrument for further research on persecution and exile of musicians. 


The biographical dictionary contains two types of records: 1. records concerning musicians ("Personen"), 2. records 
concerning literature and sources ("Bibliographie"). The individual entries concerning musicians will provide a 
biography, describe his or her professional and other activities with particular reference to the history of persecution 
and exile. A list of works, documents and literature and photos will be added to every article. One has to distinguish 
between two types of records: freely formulated text on the one hand and lists of keywords that are formulated in 
advance on the other hand. At the moment 2.700 personal records of musicians can be found in the biographical dictionary  - 
about 400 detailed articles and about 2.300 short articles (December 17, 2009). In future we intend about 5.000 records of 
musicians will be published. The bibliography contains records of literature (books, essays, newspaper-articles etc.) as 
well as documents from archives. At the moment about 8.400 records are accessible (December 17, 2009).


The Biographical Dictionary of Persecuted Musicians 1933-1945 uses the content management system 'MyCoRe' (version 2.0) 
in connection with the database 'Exist' in a scholarly context. Academic texts about musicians are presented 
systematically. They include the possibility of placing references (links to literature and sources as well as to 
articles about other musicians) and using detailed search functions. 


The articles about musicians are written by the editors and student assistants as well as external scholars. Editorial 
work is done by the editors and the collaborator. Corrections of the articles and submission of articles into the 
biographical dictionary are realised by the collaborator. The biographical dictionary is a source of information for 
the scholarly public, namely universities, conservatories, research establishments, opera houses, concert artists' 
agencies, publishers and record industry, as well as the public at large.
