---
title: "MILESS [engl.]"
slug: anwendung-miless
date: 2008-10-27

draft: false

blog/authors: ["Frank Lützenkirchen"]
blog/periods: 2008-10
blog/categories:
 - "Anwendungen"
 - "applications [engl]"

#blog/tags:
 
---

MILESS is an institutional content repository developed at the university of Duisburg-Essen, and the
**"father" of MyCoRe**. The institutions using the MILESS software built the MyCoRe community later. MILESS has its own 
software components, most part of the functionality comes from the MyCoRe kernel that is developed within the community. 
MILESS is functionally comparable with the reference application DocPortal. MILESS can be downloaded and installed 
separately, all MyCoRe packages are already included in the distribution (see below).

{{< mcr-figure class="text-center" src="/images/blog/applications/miless-dokument_screenshot.png" alt="screenshot MILESS document"
  label="screenshot" caption="MILESS document" />}}

MILESS can be used to manage and archive electronic **publications** and **thesis papers**, 
but also **multimedia learning and teaching material** like **animations, simulations, audio and 
video files**. In this way, users are provided with a uniform and systematic access to scripts, foils and other 
digital documents that are archived and permanently made available in the repository. To accomplish this, MILESS not 
only manages descriptive metadata using the **Dublin Core** standard, but also stores the associated files 
in its own internal structure, so that availability for preparation or direct use within a lecture can be guaranteed.

Users can find content using various **search masks**, **browsing** the organizational 
structure or hierarchical scientific classifications, or using a **A-Z index** of creator and publisher 
names. Access to every document or single file is also possible using a direct URL or unique ID. MILESS manages any type 
of files. All file collections can be downloaded as **zip archives** that automatically are created on 
demand. Authors can ingest and edit their documents and files at every time from every place using an easy-to-use    
**web interface**. 

{{< mcr-figure class="text-center float-left mr-4" src="/images/blog/applications/miless-semesterapparat_screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot MILLESS-Semesterapparat"
  label="Screenshot" caption="MILLESS-Semesterapparat" />}}
  
  
Using the module **"Online Reserve Collections",** instructors can provide literature lists, links, digitized 
texts from journal articles and book chapters, as well as other files to their students. Instructors can manage their 
contents using simple online forms, that afterwards initiate the required services like bool loan and digitization at the 
local library. Knowledge in development of web pages is not necessary.

<div style="clear:both"></div>

{{< mcr-figure class="float-right mb-5" src="/images/blog/applications/miless-bearbeiten_screenshot.png" alt="Screenshot MILESS-Eingabemaske"
  label="Screenshot" caption="MILESS-Eingabemaske" />}}
  

MILESS supports the **Open Archives initiative** and its metadata harvesting protocol (OAI-PMH 2.0). Using 
the OAI data provider interface, both metadata and content of thesis papers and other publications are distributed, 
collected by OAI service providers world-wide and become available in the scientific world. MILESS supports the national 
OAI profiles **XMetaDiss** and **XEpicur**, which is an interface to the german national 
library, the Deutsche Nationalbibliothek. Furthermore, a direct **access for search engine robots** is 
implemented, through which content can be indexed and found by internet search engines like google. MILESS also has an 
interface based on **web services** standards that can be used to search, manage and retrieve content and 
integrate MILESS with third-party systems.

<div style="clear:both"></div>

### New in version 2.1:

* Web Services to integrate MILESS with third party systems, for example learning management software: Creating, 
* SCORM content package archiving: Search in the metadata of e-learning packages, integrated SCORM viewer
* Support for persistent identifiers (URNs, urn:nbn:de) for e-publications and automated notification of Deutsche 
Nationalbibliothek using email or OAI interfaces
* Workflow for realease of e-publications: self-archiving and self-publishing 
* Animated tutorials for authors: simply see how it can be done
* Individual access statistics for every document: How is your material being used?
* Online-WYSIWYG-HTML-editor for Reserve Collections

MILESS runs on Sun Solaris 9 (or higher version), Microsoft Windows XP, Linux and IBM AIX 5 (or higher version). It has 
been tested with **MySQL** 4.0 (or higher version), IBM DB2 8.2 (or higher version) and Oracle 8. You need 
the freely available **Java 2** SDK, Standard Edition, Version 1.4.2 or higher, together with the Java 
build tool Apache Ant (version 1.6.2 or higher). MILESS is a Java servlet application which runs in any servlet 
container like Apache **Tomcat** 5.0.28 (recommended), the commercial system IBM WebSphere or other servlet 
containers. If you run a Real server version 8, a **Helix 
Universal Server** 9 (or higher version), or the IBM VideoCharger server version 7 or higher, MILESS can store 
audio and video files on these servers and stream them from there.
</p>
<p>
You can find further information on downloading and installing MILESS at:  
[**http://duepublico.uni-duisburg-essen.de/about/nachnutzung.xml**](http://duepublico.uni-duisburg-essen.de/about/nachnutzung.xml)


### MILESS is being used at various German universities:
* University of Duisburg-Essen: [**DuEPublico**](http://duepublico.uni-duisburg-essen.de "DuEPublico Duisburg-Essen Publications Online")
* University of  Münster: [**MIAMI**](http://miami.uni-muenster.de "miami münstersches informations- und archivsystem für multimediale inhalte")
* University of  Jena: [**Digitale Bibliothek Thüringen**](http://www.db-thueringen.de/ "dbt Digitale Bibliothek Thüringen")
* University of  Freiburg: [**FreiMORE**](http://freimore.uni-freiburg.de/ "FreiMORE FREIburgerMultimediaObjectREpostitory")
* University of  Düsseldorf: [**Düsseldorfer Dokumenten- und Publikationsservice**](http://docserv.uni-duesseldorf.de/ "Düsseldorfer Dokumenten- und Publikationsservice")
* University of  Paderborn:[**eSeminarapparate**](http://ubdok.uni-paderborn.de/semapp/ "Dokumenten- und Publikationsservice eSeminarapparate")
* University of  Bochum: [**BO-MILESS**](http://miless.rub.de"BO-MILESS Multimedialer Lehr- und Lernserver")
* University of  Giessen: [**Giessener Elektronische Bibliothek**](http://semapp.ub.uni-giessen.de/semapp/index.xml "Giessener Elektronische Bibliothek Lehrmaterial &amp; Publikationen")
* University of  Wuppertal: [**Hochschulschriften-Server**](http://elpub.bib.uni-wuppertal.de"Hochschulschriften-Server der Bergischen Universität Wuppertal")

